# Chapter Four: Egypt > Dramatis Personae: Egypt

CHAPTER 4
CULT IN RESIDENCE: 
THE BROTHERHOOD OF  THE BLACK PHARAOH 
(EGYPT)
This is the central branch of the cult—a larger and more 
powerful organization than that in London, secure in its 
home territory, with 300+ members mostly concentrated 
in Egypt’s major cities, particularly Cairo. While its 
membership is eclectic, including those from all nationalities 
and walks of life, most members are Egyptian nationals. 
The chief priest of the Cairo (and wider Egyptian) cult is 
Omar al-Shakti, a wealthy cotton farmer and landowner (A 
Dangerous Man, page 344).
Cult rituals are held in the deserts, usually in caverns 
beneath the Great Sphinx at Giza or, more rarely, near 
the pyramids at Dahshur. Since the Egyptian police and 
British political operatives keep a careful watch on religious 
activity in Cairo, the cult stays well hidden there. Favored 
weapons include short swords, daggers, and garrotes, as 
well as the short spiked club.
In public, the Egyptian and British authorities deny 
that the Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh exists, and the 
police greet such tales with laughter. However, the fact 
is that the Egyptian authorities do know of the cult but 
are under strict orders not to impart such information to 
foreigners; official confirmation of a murder cult reflects 
poorly on the ability of the Egyptians to govern themselves. 
If the investigators supply good information to the police 
they act on it, but may not admit to doing so. 
Profiles for Average Brotherhood Cultists (Egypt) can 
be found on page 379.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE: 
EGYPT
Key NPCs of the Egypt chapter are gathered here for the 
Keeper’s convenience. The following information includes 
backstories, motivations, and plot considerations, while 
their statistical profiles can be found in the Characters and 
Monsters section at the end of this chapter. Backgrounds 
and profiles for those NPCs featured in the sidetrack 
scenario The Black Cat can be found in situ.
ALLIES AND 
INDEPENDENTS
Faraz Najjar, 45, antiquities dealer
•	 Link: letter from Warren Besart to Roger Carlyle, dated 
March, 1919, discussing the sale of important artifacts 
(Carlyle Papers America #1).
•	 Link: interview with Warren Besart, confirming Faraz 
Najjar’s role in acquiring the artifacts for Carlyle (Carlyle 
Papers Egypt #1).
•	 Link: reports of a mysterious shop fire in the Street of 
Jackals, found in the Cairo Bulletin’s archives (Carlyle 
Papers Egypt #3).
A Cairene antiques dealer, Najjar’s current 
shop on the Street of Potters sells mostly 
tourist garbage. Najjar found himself on 
the wrong side of the Brotherhood of 
the Black Pharaoh after stealing certain 
artifacts from Omar al-Shakti (Najjar’s 
Tale, page 316), then selling them to 
Warren Besart, Roger Carlyle’s agent in 
Cairo. In revenge, fire vampires were sent to 
destroy him; an attack which he only narrowly 
escaped.
Although he is the most obvious person to speak to 
in the city regarding the Carlyle Expedition, Najjar’s 
interactions with the investigators may well ensure that 
the Brotherhood’s thugs succeed where the fire vampires 
failed. This is particularly likely if the investigators stole 
from the Brotherhood in London (or elsewhere) and are 
now being tailed by them. By talking to the investigators, 
Najjar proves that he has learned nothing at all when it 
comes to crossing the Brotherhood, the punishment for 
which is death.
•	 Description: portly, and badly scarred on one side of his 
face as a result of the terrible fire which destroyed his former 
shop in the Street of Jackals. He wears a traditional Arab 
djellaba and a turban. Hidden beneath the djellaba is the 
Amulet of the Night Beasts (see Appendix D: Artifacts, 
page 652).
•	 Traits: nervous and ill tempered (through fear).
•	 Roleplaying hooks: a useful source of information regarding 
the Carlyle Expedition and the Brotherhood; also a possible 
intermediary for dealings with Cairo’s criminal underground.

--- Page 308 ---

305
305
EGYPT
Warren Besart, 35, near-mad hashish addict
•	 Link: letter from Warren Besart to Roger Carlyle regarding 
Faraz Najjar (Carlyle Papers America #1).
•	 Link: named by Faraz Najjar as being the agent he sold 
Omar al-Shakti’s Black Pharaoh artifacts to (Najjar’s Tale, 
page 316).
•	 Link: confirmed as Roger Carlyle’s agent by his sister, 
Erica—may arise from the investigators’ discussions with 
her in New York (Erica’s Interview, page 133, America).
•	 Link: confirmed as Roger Carlyle’s agent by Jack Brady 
(Carlyle Papers China #8).
Besart was once a calm, collected man with 
a taste for smart, expensive suits; a man 
who knew how to find things for his 
various employers, no matter how 
rare, expensive, or illegal such items 
might be. Those days are long gone, 
all thanks to his association with 
the Carlyle Expedition. Besart now 
spends his time smoking hashish in 
order to dispel the terrible sights he 
witnessed while working for Carlyle 
(Carlyle Papers Egypt #1). 
•	 Description: tall, with a sunken, pale face fringed with a 
scruffy blond beard. He insists on wearing a filthy djellaba, 
with the hood pulled over his face at all times which, he 
believes, allows him to blend in with the crowd. But his 
height (far greater than most Egyptians), along with his 
rather distinctive gait, clearly mark him out as a foreigner. 
•	 Traits: drug-addled and querulous.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: a source of information on the Carlyle 
Expedition.
Nigel Wassif, 43, proprietor of the Cairo 
Bulletin, agent for the King of England
•	 Link: Jackson Elias visited Wassif ’s newspaper archives 
during his brief stay in the city (Jackson Elias in Cairo, 
page 297).
Editor, owner, and reporter for the Cairo Bulletin, an 
English-language weekly newspaper, Wassif is a confirmed 
anglophile; the illegitimate son of an Egyptian noblewoman 
who died shortly after his birth. Wassif believes that his father 
was an English nobleman and, in conversation, implies that 
he is of royal blood, though he never makes a specific claim. 
A lot of influential Cairenes believe him, though, mostly 
because Wassif so thoroughly believes it himself.
In many ways, Wassif is dense and unseeing, and his 
newspaper unperceptive in its general reporting, although 
it impeccably covers debuts and fancy-dress balls. Or, at least, 
this is the carefully cultivated impression Wassif gives to those 
not paying close attention. It is all an act, used to mask his 
true employment as an intelligence agent for King George V.
Thanks to his suave manners and careful maneuvering, 
Wassif has long had access to the highest levels of the Egyptian 
aristocracy and government; his excellent English and French, 
and his unimpeachable discretion, have opened doors to him 
among all the foreign social sets in the capital. Only one British 
functionary in Egypt knows his true profession as an operative 
for His Majesty’s Government, although investigators with 
a background in intelligence (such as spies) may realize 
he is more than he seems with a successful Hard 
Psychology roll. 
Wassif can help respectable investigators 
in a number of ways: finding a reliable 
dragoman (see page 315)—if so, use 
Saleem Naziz (page 373); helping to 
find Faraz Najjar and Warren Besart; and 
paying the investigators a few piastres for 
any news stories they produce, although he 
refuses anything too controversial. If asked 
about research libraries, and so on, Wassif 
directs investigators to the excellent Egyptian 
Museum and commends to them an acquaintance 
there, Dr. Ali Kafour, who may be able to clear up bureaucratic 
snags holding back permits, as well as easing small problems 
with the police regarding the acquisition of “antiquities.”
If the investigators make a polished and intelligent appearance 
at the Cairo Bulletin, Wassif might mention them in routine 
dispatches; if he does, Anthony Chang (Dramatis Personae: 
China, page 532) is either on the lookout for them when 
they arrive (if the investigators confide in Wassif where they 
plan to travel) or is immediately aware of who they are the 
moment they walk into his office at the Shanghai Courier (page 
540). If, on the other hand, the investigators are rude, loud, 
or otherwise uncivilized, Wassif probably takes a dislike to 
them and this potentially valuable alliance is unlikely to occur.
•	 Description: Wassif is well fed, with slicked-down hair and 
a pencil-thin mustache. His clothes are excellently cut and 
conservative, and he is always spotlessly clean and unruffled.
•	 Traits: suave, charming, and remarkably alert to the social 
implications of a situation. 
•	 Roleplaying hooks: a source of information, as well as a 
possible ally. Wassif can be used in a fashion similar to 
that of Mickey Mahoney (England), but where Mickey is 
cynical and brash and makes no bones about the poverty 
of his upbringing, Wassif obsequiously strives for exquisite 
taste in the pages of the Bulletin, lavishing great care on his 
gossipy “Events” column.

--- Page 309 ---

S 
E 
R 
P 
E 
N 
T 
O
F 
Y 
I 
G
306
306
CHAPTER 4
Dr. Ali Kafour, 63,  
curator of the occult and ritual magician
•	 Link: interview with Nigel Wassif (The Cairo Bulletin, 
page 321).
•	 Link: inquiries at the Egyptian Museum (The Egyptian 
Museum, page 322).
•	 Link: known to have spoken with Jackson Elias during his 
time in Cairo (Jackson Elias in Cairo, page 297).
Dr. Kafour is a respected Egyptian scholar 
based at Cairo’s foremost museum. He is 
also a ritual magician of some capacity, 
though he wants no one to know that 
he dabbles in sorcery. Provided the 
investigators treat him with respect and 
do not waste his time, Dr. Kafour can 
become a useful ally. However, if they 
make an enemy of him, he will watch them 
carefully to make sure they do not endanger 
Egypt’s antiquities.
•	 Description: a short and thin older man, who has never 
lost his love for the occult. When he grows excited in 
conversation, his excess energy spills out as a characteristic 
set of fidgety movements.
•	 Traits: alert, able, and intelligent. 
•	 Roleplaying hooks: source of information and a potential 
ally. He may be able to help the investigators protect 
themselves from certain Mythos spells and creatures, if 
he is approached respectfully. The scholar also makes for a 
potential replacement investigator, with suitable adjustments, 
in high-powered campaigns.
Ahmed al-Dhahabi, age 73,  
nazir of Ibn Tulun 
•	 Link: interview with Faraz Najjar, claiming that the 
Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh intend to steal an item 
from the former Mosque of Ibn Tulun (page 340).
Ahmed al-Dhahabi is currently acting both as an alim 
(learned Islamic scholar; plural: ulama) to the 
residents of the Ibn Tulun asylum, and as 
nazir (caretaker) for the waqf (Islamic 
endowment council) responsible for the 
former mosque. He is deeply upset about 
recent attempts to break into the former mosque to steal the 
Girdle of Nitocris, a critical element in the Brotherhood’s 
plans to resurrect the ancient queen. al-Dhahabi is aware of 
the Mythos gods and their minions, but perceives them as 
instances of the demonic menaces mentioned in the Qur’an. 
He has zealously arranged the defense of the Girdle but, in 
the purity of his faith, he does not understand the danger to 
the world to be as pervasive and all-threatening as it really is.
•	 Description: al-Dhahabi has a lined and careworn face 
framed by a long, white beard. He wears a traditional white 
taqiyah (skull cap).
•	 Traits: patient, gentle, and devout.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: if the investigators can befriend 
al-Dhahabi, he proves to be a steadfast ally, although he is 
in mortal danger as the Brotherhood escalates their attempts 
to retrieve the artifact.
Dr. Emile Vabreaux, age 39, police forensics expert
•	 Link: called in to examine the unidentified tissue found 
after the attack on the Ibn Tulun ulama (The Police 
Investigation, page 343.
A former chemist turned police forensic expert, Vabreaux 
isn’t entirely certain how he ended up in Cairo. The way he 
sees it, his transfer from his home city of Paris was either 
a punishment for always chasing up every last detail, or 
a chance to make his mark on the fledgling field under 
challenging circumstances. Either way, here he is, so he 
might as well make the most of it.
•	 Description: average-looking in almost all respects, with 
a neatly trimmed beard and a permanent expression of 
concentration (probably because he needs spectacles but is 
too vain to wear them).
•	 Traits: curious, dogged, and reserved.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: the Keeper should determine 
whether or not Vabreaux becomes an important ally for 
the investigators. It is likely that he has some acquaintance 
with Nigel Wassif, though the temperaments of the two 
men are very different. Alternatively, he could 
make a useful replacement player character.

--- Page 310 ---

307
307
EGYPT
THE CLIVE EXPEDITION
•	 Link: Telegram from Dr. Clive to Edward Gavigan (Carlyle 
Papers England #5).
•	 Link: interview with Dr. Ali Kafour (The Egyptian 
Museum: Queen Nitocris, page 325).
•	 Link: interview with Nigel Wassif and hunting through 
the archives of the Cairo Bulletin (The Cairo Bulletin, 
page 321).
•	 Link: interview with Janwillem Van Heuvelen, who may 
even provide an introduction, although this may have 
unfortunate repercussions for the investigators (see optional 
sidetrack, The Black Cat, page 326).
The members of the Clive Expedition are: Dr. Henry Clive, 
Martin Winfield, Agatha Broadmoor, James Gardner, and 
Johanna Specht.
Dr. Henry Clive, 58,  
archaeologist and cultist 
The expedition’s leader, Dr. Clive is an 
excellent archaeologist. He affects an 
aristocratic casualness whenever in 
polite company but is, in actual fact, a 
commoner, the youngest of three sons 
born to an impoverished Yorkshire 
schoolmaster. While Dr. Clive is not 
a priest of the Brotherhood of the Black 
Pharaoh, he nevertheless has considerable 
magic at his disposal. 
•	 Description: gray-haired, with a receding hairline and a 
luxuriant mustache. Often seen waving around a cigarette 
in an ivory holder.
•	 Traits: seems kindly enough but has been a cultist for 35 
years and is long insane. He does not appreciate people 
questioning his authority, especially those he considers to 
be beneath him.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: one of the Brotherhood’s many lackeys 
and an adversary.
Martin Winfield, 24,  
archaeologist, sadist, and cultist
The well-connected second son of a British Member of 
Parliament, Winfield is yet another archaeologist turned 
cultist in the Brotherhood, although he ranks low in the 
British branch due to his youth and relative inexperience. 
He enjoys inflicting pain and relishes extracting 
information from his victims. He believes that Clive’s 
methods are unduly conservative and inhibited, though he 
fears Clive’s magical powers.
•	 Description: tall, lean, and blond, with a 
prominent chin and nose. His lips are 
usually curled into a slight sneer.
•	 Traits: smug, malicious, and vindictive; 
a sadistic brute and a bully. (A 
successful Psychology roll identifies 
that his civility is a pretense and that 
he is barely in control of himself most 
of the time; he is, undoubtedly, prone to 
angry and violent outbursts as well.)
•	 Roleplaying hooks: Winfield is a dangerous 
man to cross, and makes for a petty and spiteful 
enemy. 
Agatha Broadmoor, 67, psychic and potential ally
Miss Broadmoor is a medium, capable of contacting the 
spirits of the dead by trance. Plagued by prophetic nightmares 
of Nitocris’ rising, Broadmoor originally sought out the Clive 
Expedition in order to convince them to stay away from Egypt 
after hearing they were planning on excavating Mycerinus’ 
(Menkaura’s) pyramid. Her first meeting with Dr. Clive (at a 
lecture hosted by the British Museum) convinced Broadmoor 
that his soul was already lost to darkness and that her only 
hope of thwarting the evil queen’s rebirth was to accompany 
the expedition and somehow exorcise Nitocris’ spirit.
As far as the Penhew Foundation is concerned, 
Broadmoor’s appearance occurred at a most fortuitous time, 
even if they do suspect her true motives for approaching 
them. So, although an apparently odd addition to the 
expedition’s roster, she was paid to accompany Clive to Egypt 
because she precisely fitted the expedition’s requirements—a 
conduit for the dread monarch’s resurrection (Special Rites 
for Queen Nitocris, page 325). With the disappearance 
of the mummy, Broadmoor fears Nitocris’ restoration is 
imminent, little realizing that she has a significant part 
to play in the Brotherhood’s machinations.
As a psychic, Broadmoor might perform a sitting for 
the investigators, if suitably encouraged (see Séances, 
page 213, England). If such a sitting is held, her visions 
always end with the same prophetic statement: “That 
which bends can break the mind but reveal 
the truth. The white way leads to darkness, 
illumination, and temptation.” This is a 
direct reference to the doorway into 
Nyarlathotep’s sanctum, hidden in the 
Bent Pyramid at Dahshur (The Bent 
Pyramid, page 364).

--- Page 311 ---

S 
E 
R 
P 
E 
N 
T 
O
F 
Y 
I 
G
308
308
CHAPTER 4
•	 Description: pale despite her time in Egypt, Broadmoor 
is elderly and genteel. Her long, white-gray hair is kept 
coiffured in a neat swirl at the nape of her neck, and she 
wears loose-fitting, flowing dresses and a headscarf and 
large straw hat to protect her from the sun. She never goes 
without her costume jewelry; her fingers are covered with 
rings bearing occult symbols.
•	 Traits: appears to be a bit dotty but appearances can be 
deceptive. In reality, she is determined and wily, using her 
persona of an eccentric old lady as the perfect smokescreen.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: because of her fear of what Nitocris 
might do if brought into the modern age, Broadmoor can 
act as a potential ally in the investigators’ attempts to uncover 
what is going on in the Egyptian deserts, even though she 
knows nothing of the Mythos and the Brotherhood. Given 
her profession, she may hold a séance for the investigators 
(see box, Séances, page 213, England), but if the investigators 
mock her talents, she is unwilling to have further dealings 
with them. If she survives, Broadmoor could make for an 
interesting and unusual replacement player character.
James Gardner, age 40,  
archaeologist and potential ally
Gardner is a good archaeologist, one strongly influenced 
by the theories of Carl Jung. He has written three books 
concerning ancient Egypt, none of which were particularly 
well written or well received. Gardner believes that the 
riddle of who the Sphinx represents involves an unnamed 
ruler of ancient Egypt, who occupied the throne long before 
the advent of the Black Pharaoh (he is mistaken, of course). 
In addition, Gardner theorizes that an underground 
labyrinth, perhaps an entire city, exists or existed beneath the 
Sphinx and beyond; he agreed to join the Clive Expedition 
in order to investigate this hypothesis. He is essentially 
correct, unfortunately for him (see Descent into Horror, 
page 349). 
Gardner is not a member of the Brotherhood, though 
his dream research, along with his other arcane studies of 
the human collective unconscious, have given him some 
inkling of the awful threat posed by the Mythos. 
Clive brought Gardner along because 
Nyarlathotep commanded that he do so; 
the god has not yet revealed the purpose 
behind his command. Gardner is 
blissfully unaware of why he was 
chosen to accompany the expedition 
as, otherwise, he would extricate himself 
from Egypt and return to England 
(particularly in light of his inability to 
confirm his theories now that the dig has 
moved to Memphis). 
•	 Description: shorter and stouter than his colleague, Martin 
Winfield; Gardner dresses like the archetypal English 
archaeologist abroad. 
•	 Traits: thoughtful and usually friendly, though currently 
somewhat glum and frustrated by the events surrounding 
the expedition.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: a useful source of information. Of the 
Clive Expedition members, after Miss Broadmoor, Gardner 
is the most likely to be a useful ally to the investigators. He 
is also a potential replacement player character, if he survives.
Johanna Specht, age 32, archaeologist and mystic
The fourth archaeologist on the Clive Expedition, Fräulein 
Specht has a formidable ability to sight-read hieroglyphics, 
and is uncannily good with codes and ciphers of all kinds. As 
well as having a keen intellect, she is physically very fit, being 
an ardent enthusiast of physical culture, and rises early most 
mornings for rigorous exercises and a cold shower. 
Specht is also an occultist of some repute who seeks 
magical artifacts with which she can rescue her beloved 
Germany from its present agony and, thereby, grant her 
homeland its rightful place on the throne of nations. 
Her occult studies indicate that a champion of der volk 
(the people) will soon arise, but she is unsure who that 
will be. Since the minions of Nyarlathotep have plans 
for the National Socialists, they’ll keep Specht alive if 
at all possible, and there is a small but definite chance 
that Nyarlathotep might resurrect her (if that suits the 
Keeper’s purposes). 
•	 Description: Fräulein Specht has a well-honed physique 
and a golden tan. She prefers to wear jodhpurs and close-
fitting tailored shirts, and keeps her blond, wavy hair in 
a ponytail.
•	 Traits: distant and dedicated, with a razor-sharp mind. 
She usually only becomes animated when discussing her 
passions—ancient Egypt and her dreams for her homeland.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: although she probably won’t take 
much notice of the investigators (unless they are German 
or share her political viewpoints), if she can be convinced 
that the Carlyle Expedition’s plan to scorch the 
sky endangers the future of Germany, then 
the investigators may end up with an 
unlikely ally. She could also make for a 
morally ambiguous replacement player 
character, if required.

--- Page 312 ---

309
309
EGYPT
ADVERSARIES 
Omar al-Shakti, appears 55,  
wealthy plantation owner and high priest 
•	 Link: letter from al-Shakti to Edward Gavigan (Carlyle 
Papers England #11).
•	 Link: Gavigan’s shipment ledger at Misr House (Carlyle 
Papers England #12).
•	 Link: interview with Faraz Najjar (Najjar’s Tale, page 316).
•	 Link: interview with Nigel Wassif (The Cairo Bulletin, 
page 321).
•	 Link: Ahja Singh’s ledger (Mombasa: Seeking Ahja Singh, 
page 396, Kenya).
•	 Link: mentioned in Gavigan’s letter to Robert Huston 
(Carlyle Papers Australia #4).
•	 Link: mentioned in Gods of Reality, Robert Huston’s 
rambling magnum opus (Carlyle Papers Australia #5).
•	 Link: mentioned by Jack Brady (Meeting Jack Brady, page 
577, China).
This powerful sorcerer controls the Brotherhood of the Black 
Pharaoh—throughout Egypt, at least—and has the direct 
aid and advice of Nyarlathotep. Though Egyptian, British, 
and French dispatches occasionally mention al-Shakti, in 
every such instance pertinent files and their cross-references 
have been destroyed by fire within a few months. Incidental 
tax records and property deeds exist, but no dossier ever 
compiled on Omar al-Shakti has survived for very long. 
The Cairo underworld occasionally whispers of him, but 
no more so than it refers to hundreds of other Cairo-area 
businessmen. Publicly, Mr. al-Shakti is an honest citizen, an 
astute businessman of impeccable manners, and reputedly 
a lesser son of a fine family long powerful in Egypt. He 
speaks English fluently, as well as many other languages, 
including Mandarin Chinese. 
The Cairene businessman plans to resurrect Queen 
Nitocris so that she may lead the Brotherhood to greater 
glories. While his plans do not entirely fit in with those 
engineered by the Carlyle Expedition, he grudgingly lends 
his support in order to keep a close eye on what the London 
branch is up to. He has no love for Edward Gavigan and 
would be happy to see him fall. Neither does he trust 
Zahra Shafik, even though he trained her; he suspects 
that, once she has London under her control, her eyes 
will turn once again toward Cairo.
al-Shakti has been reincarnated many times before, 
and has seen more of history than anyone of human 
origin. He likes life as a human being and, should he 
be killed, it is likely that the gods of the Mythos will 
raise him again, for he has always served them faithfully, 
Nyarlathotep in particular. 
Keepers are advised not to abuse the power 
al-Shakti possesses but to be relentless if 
the investigators persist in tangling with 
him. He disdains mere weapons, though 
he does keep a revolver in his house. 
If he is killed, al-Shakti immediately 
crumbles into dust, requiring a Sanity 
roll for viewers (loss 1/1D6 loss).
•	 Description: physically, al-Shakti is rotund 
and genial. He looks to be a robust 55 years 
old but is much, much older—by several thousand 
years. Usually, he carries his cat Hetep with him 
(Characters and Monsters: Egypt, page 372).
•	 Traits: cunning, ruthless, and as powerful as a minor god.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: by far one of the most potent adversaries 
whom the investigators can meet in this campaign. 
Sharifa Rawash, appears 29,  
the revivified Queen Nitocris
•	 Link: the investigators may witness her resurrection during 
the ceremony beneath the pyramids at Giza (Special Rites 
for Queen Nitocris, page 358).
Having spent several millennia traversing the Duat (the Ancient 
Egyptian underworld), Sharifa/Nitocris is unfamiliar with 
much of what the modern world has to offer, but she is a quick 
learner. Even after all this time, humanity’s driving passions—
lust, greed, jealousy, and fear, to name but a few—haven’t really 
changed and she has lost none of her ability to manipulate those 
around her to get what she most desires: power.
Sharifa/Nitocris’ goal is to become the outright leader 
of the International Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh, 
a role that will continue to increase in power and scope 
once the Old Ones return. If her resurrection is successful, 
guidance for Sharifa/Nitocris’ role in the campaign can be 
found in the London, Kenya, Australia, and China chapters.
•	 Description: with high cheekbones set in a heart-shaped 
face, an aquiline nose, and unsettlingly pale gray-green eyes, 
Sharifa is a most attractive woman. She wears 
her long brunette hair coiled and flowing in 
the latest European fashion, held in place 
by numerous jeweled pins. On her left 
arm she wears the Circlet of Nata Haje 
(see Appendix D: Artifacts, page 652).
•	 Traits: proud, scheming, and vivacious.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: depending on 
how the Keeper wishes to use Sharifa/
Nictocris, she becomes a powerful if 
unpredictable ally or a deadly foe.

--- Page 313 ---

S 
E 
R 
P 
E 
N 
T 
O
F 
Y 
I 
G
310
310
CHAPTER 4
MINOR NPCS
Nuri of El Wasta, age unknown,  
Guardian of the Eye of Light and Darkness
•	 Link: recommended as an expert on occult matters by Faraz 
Najjar (Najjar’s Tale, page 316).
•	 Link: Warren Besart’s statement (Carlyle Papers Egypt #1).
Hideously scarred in punishment for defying the 
Brotherhood of the Black Pharaoh one too many times, 
Nuri and her son, Ubaid, live in abject poverty in the town 
of El Wasta. 
•	 Description: prematurely aged beyond her years. Both of 
her hands and most of her jaw have been burned away 
(0/1D3 Sanity loss). 
•	 Traits: insane, but determined to protect the Eye of Light 
and Darkness until those she knows are destined to seek 
her out come to claim it.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: due to her horrific injuries, there is 
little more Nuri can do besides pass on her half of 
the Eye of Light and Darkness. 
Nessim Efti, age 90,  
bearer of the Sword of Akmallah and potential ally
•	 Link: meets the investigators during their visit to the 
Mosque of Ibn Tulun (An Audacious Theft, page 340).
Wizened and old, Efti still retains a strength and determination 
to carry out his duties, even if his movements are now slowed 
with age. A devout alim and fearsome guardian of the Girdle 
of Nitocris, Efti wields the Sword of Akmallah, a marvelous 
scimitar made many centuries ago to mete out punishment to 
mundane and extradimensional creatures alike. 
•	 Description: a bald head, usually hidden beneath his 
taqiyah, with a neatly groomed white beard. There is a lively 
sparkle in the old man’s eye.
•	 Traits: brave, determined, and intelligent; a good judge 
of character.
•	 Roleplaying hooks: a potential ally in the fight against 
Omar al-Shakti and the Brotherhood, if he 
can be convinced of the impending danger.
Postcard of Port Said

--- Page 314 ---

311
311
EGYPT
THE MOTHER OF CITIES
Wherein the investigators are introduced to both the dangers 
and delights of this most ancient of metropolises.
OPTIONAL SCENE:  
FRESH OFF THE BOAT
This section describes an additional encounter the Keeper 
may wish to include to further reinforce the danger and 
chaos of Egypt. It takes place as soon as the investigators 
arrive in the country—probably at Port Said or Alexandria—
or when they arrive at the train station in Cairo. 
If the investigators tangled with the Brotherhood in England 
before arriving in Egypt, and especially if they escaped with 
some of the cult’s artifacts or books, the Egyptian Brotherhood 
(probably) learns of this before the investigators arrive. If so, 
replace the miscreants described in this section with Average 
Brotherhood Cultists (page 379). Even if the investigators 
avoid or neutralize them on this occasion, al-Shakti’s cultists 
continue to dog them, rifle their rooms, and so on. Otherwise, 
the Brotherhood completely ignores the investigators until 
their activities affect cult operations.
Alternatively, this is an opportunity to introduce Hakim 
and his disagreeable friends (About Hakim, page 315). 
Unlike the Hotel du Sud’s “staff,” Hakim and his cronies 
do not attempt to lead the investigators to any hotel, just 
the nearest quiet alley where they can rob them.
THE PICK-UP
Unless the investigators have the foresight to book 
themselves into a reputable hotel, such as Shepheard’s or 
the Semiramis in Cairo, then it is unlikely that an agent is 
there to greet them at the docks or station with trustworthy 
baggage handlers. In amongst the bustle and din of the city 
and the milling crowds of bewildered newcomers, crooks and 
swindlers watch for an opportunity to relieve the unwary of 
their luggage or lure them to seedy hotels where the staff can 
go through the mark’s possessions at their leisure.
As soon as they step onto the pier or platform, the 
investigators are accosted by a crowd of men—some in 
Western-style suits, others in the traditional djellaba—all 
waving flyers for their favored hotel or guest house. One 
young man, distinctly taller and with a shock of unruly 
brown hair, approaches them; in contrast to most of the 
other barkers, he is very smartly turned out in Western 
clothing. Bowing slightly, he addresses them in virtually 
flawless English (or French, if that is the group’s majority 
common language).
“Good day to you, and welcome to Egypt. My name is 
Ibi Moussa. If you have yet to arrange your accommodation, 
may I suggest the Hotel du Sud? Please, permit me to 
take care of your luggage for you.”
Without waiting for them to reply, the well-dressed man 
motions for a gaggle of boys to grab the investigators’ bags 
and, as a group, with Ibi at the head, they set off into the 
crowds. If resistant to the “offer,” a successful Hard DEX 
roll allows quick investigators to grab onto their possessions 
before the boys can make off with them; otherwise, Ibi 
and the boys disappear through the crowds, bags in hand.
If the investigators wish to catch up to the boys and their 
bags, the Keeper might like to frame the scene as a short 
chase sequence. Note that, should an investigator catch up 
with the boy carrying their luggage, they may attempt to 
grapple their bags back from the urchin with a STR roll.
If entering a chase, there are plenty of obstacles to 
liven up the pursuit: the streets are notoriously busy and 
obvious ones include crowded streets of people and animals, 
upended market stalls, and slippery conditions underfoot 
caused by animal (and human) waste.
Should they lose track of the boys, attempting to hail a 
police officer is pointless in the crush and confusion, as is 
reporting the theft to the authorities. Their complaints are 
met with shrugs and suggestions that they should at least see 
if the Hotel du Sud is real before lodging a formal grievance. 
If, on the other hand, the investigators decide to follow Ibi 
and his troupe, they finally come to a guesthouse not too far 
away from the dockside or station: the Hotel du Sud. The boys 
were not really stealing the luggage, although to newly-arrived 
foreigners, it did seem like the case! Cruel Keepers might ask 
for a Luck roll from investigators who allowed their bags to 
be taken: failure indicates that their bag (and the boy carrying 
it) didn’t make it to the hotel, and it has been stolen. 
See page 373 for Ibi Moussa’s profile and the Robbers 
statistics in Characters and Monsters: Egypt.
CHASE SEQUENCE QUICK REFERENCE
Ibi Moussa and his Accomplices
CON	
	
50
DEX	
	
50
STR	
	
45
Base MOV 	
7
Skills: Climb 50%, Jump 50%, Stealth 45%.